Ok so I think I should start documenting stuff so I'm making this little log book so I remember what I do.

Log 1:
It usually starts at day 0 but I dident have a log that day and its all going to get replaced by my new idea. So basically I want to have a Map class that can take in a class, like tote really cool objectified ones where your like Map<T> { } and then Map<PImage> wowSoCool = new Map<PImage>(); this would solve al my previous issues with the map system because I can just have multiple layers its perfect. I also want a library so it just has to load once and that sounds super efficient, and collision detection is gonna be crazy fast because we can just get literally 4 things from an array. I still don't know exactly how collisions are gonna work but we will cross that bridge when we get there. Bye :)

Log 2:
I mostly worked on frc today but i learned how hashmaps work and they are literally just inbuilt tile maps so thats really cool and useful. now i have to learn how jsons work thats gonna be fun. Bye :)

Log 3:
oh my god i did so much stuff. ok so first of all I'm coding at my dads house for like, the first time, and thats super fun. the keyboard is wonderful and clicky and nice (thanks papa ^u^). i got the whole map thing working and its SO COOL! it loads from a json, but not the library, which i initially though was sad and a flaw, but realized its actually a secret blessing because with the power of hashmaps you can use 1 tilemap and just have different libraries that state "this is this image" and "this is a wall" and its so cool. then i made a cool little looping thing to draw all the tiles and it keeps track of the tallest tile and uses transformation shenanigans to automatically align any grid of arbitrarily sized tiles. its fucking awesome. i also ave plans on how the gameplay will do be. so squish mellows, like the ones me and della got for our birthdays (btw happy birthday della), fight. it wold be like Pokémon but only 4 types: fire, water, earth, air. fire beats air, air beats earth, earth beats water, water beats fire. they would only have 3 moves buttttttt they could move during battle tabletop style. like tabletop Pokémon, but video game. also Caleb and i are actually making a table top version w/ the squish mellows we have and we have some of the numbers down and things. but thats a long way off from being implemented. right now the next thing would be camera movement, but i don't really want to make a whole map out of a json so i might make a map editing tool that be cool im not a fool; pool; bool; Byool :)

Log 5:
I missed log 4 because I had to go to lunch but it went anything super interesting I just worked on the editor a little and bamboozled kvr with my tile map. Now the editors finished and its actually kinda user friendly and cool. It was also a fun, nice, easy project to program except for the part with strings because strings suck. Well actually I love strings but deleting the last character sucks. I just copied a thing I found on stack  overflow :). Now I need to make a little mapped get camera stuff working. Bye :).

Log 6:
Ok so I made the editor way more intuitive by coloring different tags different colors, with helps a ton. I also fixed a little issue with how things were drawn so now it thinks x is x instead of using x as y. I also moved all the camera stuff to a new class and clamped the distance so you can look around, with was actually a super easy translate but is kinda inefficient because we are still drawing everything off screen. A much better way would be to only loop through visible tiles, but I don't really want to do that because that's a lot of complicated math, especially for arbitrarily sized tiles, and I'm pretty sure processing is smart and won't draw something offscreen so its not even that much of a optimization. Other than that just a day of doing stuff without any major revelations. Bye Bye :).

Log 7:
I had to program the player today. its started out really good. i made a good camera system that looks nice and things. its a little inelegant but probably fine. then i had to program collision and that hurt me. i havent even got to the logic yet, just getting the tiles is a headache. apparently there is a difference between a Boolean and a boolean, one is a primitive one is a wrapper class. i dont really understand the error it threw at me, so i had to settle for the inelegant solution of just writing half of the collision in the main class. this sucks. Bye :). 

Log 8:
ok so im making progress on the collision. 2 walls works, 1 wall half works, and 3 walls should just be inverted 1 wall. im breaking it down and its slowly becoming more manageable, but its also super messy and im sure there is a nice mathematical way to express it but im just to dumb to figure it out. ill do that later, right now i just want to get collision working. Bye again :).

Log 9:
so collision is done. there was like, 1 final hurdle with upper left collisions but i figured out you have to do tileWidth - y instead of just y because its like, reversed or something. it is still suuuper ugly but it works and thats cool. then i decided to add some more tiles. the floor tile is just the wall tile but darker (classic trick), and i stole the flower from somewhere, used ms paint my beloved to scale it down, but it dosent do the png thing so i had to switch to pixlr to get them onto grass. then actually adding the tiles is super fast. like adding the tile takes literally 2 lines of code and 1 minute and 22 seconds including editing time with the editor. i can definitely get that down more but thats not a priority :). i also added a slow map because i wanted to prove just how expandable my map system is, and did it it works i guess. idk at this point im not exactly sure what to do. i could work on some sprite work. i could clean up my code. i could add a battling system. i will probably do a mixture of those things or something, but the path is much less linear at this point. i think im gonna work on the table top squishmelow game so i get inspiration for the battling system, but i might not touch this project for a while. its a little scary, because i really dont want to drop this, but breaks are good and make for better games. see you again soon (hopefully), bye :)

Log 10:
Im back. After playing the squishmelow game and realizing that pathfinding would be a pain in the ass I have decided not to do that, and go for a more traditional turn based fighter. I still don't really know what I want to do, but I will cross that bridge when I get there. I have realized that there is some essential things that I will need no mater what I do next, so I have decided to program them. Today I made the warp system, which works really well and officially makes my tile map 100 times cooler than kvrs. It actually wasn't that bad, just a lot of fucking with data until it worked. You can't edit it in the editor, with is something I probably need to fix. The next steps are to probably make intractable and trainers and the battle system. But to do that I need a text box/UI system with is what I will make next. Bye bye!

Log 11:
Ok so I made text boxes. they are kinda cool I guess. I got do do some cool stuff with the modulus operation and incrementing recursion (for loop that gets longer over time) but it was all pretty light. I didn't eat to do much today, not really sure why. I'm gonna take a walk now, and when I get back I'm gonna work on a different project, a very procedural metrodvania. Like with random items and bosses and everything. I'm thinking like black and white art style too, its gonna be really cool. Ill talk about it more in the log for that project though. Right now I'm just hoping that I don't drop this project. I want to force myself to push a game to completion, because that's not something I'm good at, but I also want to have fun making it and do it when I want to. lets go for 12, bye.

Log 12:
well i wasent expecting that. so i took the game in a compleatly different direction. now im making a zelda ripoff instead of a pokemon ripoff. i dont really know why i just kinda felt like it might be easier, or at least simpiler. i want to get somthing on the arcade box. thats a goal. it dosent need to be long, or good or anything. just work. so yeah i made a sword becasue lonk kinda do be doing that. well i made the hitboxes for the sword. the sprites are still far from done. it stores a bunch of data in a final float[][][] at the start of the class, wich should proboly just be a json but i dont want to think that hard. inverting based on direction was kinda hard because my brain forced me to do it in 1 line, so i ended up with a nested inline if statement, wich is kinda wacky but thats ok i think. yeah kinda just a chill day. its nice being able to program most of the things i think of, but at the same time its less fun and problemsolvey most of the time, which is proboly why i hate polishing so much. oh yeah and the other progect still exists and i still want to finish it, im just maing this branch first. la diversion. bye :0 (i ment to type :) but acidently did :0 so im just rolling with it :0 GOD DAM IT)